---
title: "2021-09-19: Consenting adults, CLIs"
permalink: "/journal/2021-09-19/"
date: 2021-09-19T00:00:00+00:00
author_profile: false
---

## We are all consenting adults here

Hopefully, I got you clickbaited by the title. It's a well known concept in
Python which most people are aware of but not with this phrase (atleast it was
a TIL moment for me).

Python allows you to override properties and methods of an object and you can't
avoid it by restricting it with a "private" like language construct. People
usually mark private functions by prefixing it with an underscore (eg:
`_function_internal()`). Although, it doesn't prevent some code to not override
this method, you can still encapsulate your internals and public modifiable
cleanly.

Considering the flexibility, it's the job of the developers to understand the
trust which Python puts on them.

Below is an excerpt from an e-mail [thread][thread] which talks about being
consenting adults:

> Nothing is really private in python. No class or class instance can
> keep you away from all what's inside (this makes introspection
> possible and powerful). Python trusts you. It says "hey, if you want
> to go poking around in dark places, I'm gonna trust that you've got
> a good reason and you're not making trouble."
> 
> After all, we're all consenting adults here.

I came across this phrase this while I was working with [ABCs][abc] for a
project at work and encountered `abc.ABCMeta.register()` for virtual
subclasses.

Consider that we have an interface as an abstract base class like below

```python
import abc


class Demo(abc.ABC):
    @abc.abstractmethod
    def process(self):
        pass
```

Now we create our own implementation of the `Demo` interface like below

```python
class CustomDemo(Demo):
    def process(self):
        print("Implement process method defined in Demo ABC")
```

We have our implementation `CustomDemo` which implements the interface defined
in `Demo`. Pretty standard practice.

Let's assume there's an implementation in an external package which works like
our `Demo` but doesn't inherit the ABC. We can register such unrelated concrete
classes with the ABC as virtual subclasses using the `register()` method. For
example, consider the `ExternalDemo` implementation like below:

```python
class ExternalDemo:
    def process(self):
        print("Demo implemented by external package not aware of Demo ABC")
```

You can register this implementation with the ABC like below:

```python
Demo.register(ExternalDemo)
```

And now we can use `ExternalDemo` as our own implementation of `Demo`. As you
can notice the flexibility here, Python is trusting you with the "We are all
consenting adults" philosophy.


## CLIs

I recently worked on a small CLI application at work called [trail][trail]
built in Golang. For this I used [Cobra][cobra], a library to create CLI
applications.

Pretty easy to start with and nicely structured. I also added this to my
[midi-macro][midi-macro] project which had basic command line arguments as
inputs before.

While working on this, I also came across the [Go Release
Binaries][go-release-binaries] GitHub action which automatically publishes
binaries to GitHub release assets whenever a new release is created. I don't
have to now go through all the combinations of `GOOS` and `GOARCH` to generate
binaries on release.

## slack-standup → slate

In this season of rebranding, I have also renamed my project slack-standup to
[slate][slate]. For its logo, I used Adobe Spark's logo maker which suggests to
logos based on name, style etc. I don't have much designing skills and this
worked out fine for a small hobby project.

I have been making some beta [pre-releases][slate-releases] for last few weeks
and now I am wrapping up the [documentation][slate-doc] before publishing the
major release and sharing with people. This project seems to be working well at
work and multiple teams are using it for their daily standups.

Right now I am using GitHub wiki as documentation but I might consider moving
to GitHub pages once I have the project nicely documented.

## Some podcasts I listened to last week

- [Sonic Bubbles by Twenty Thousand Hertz][sonic-bubbles]
- [Little Automation Tools in Python by Talk Python][little-automation]


[thread]: https://mail.python.org/pipermail/tutor/2003-October/025932.html
[abc]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/abc.html
[trail]: https://github.com/skit-ai/trail
[cobra]: https://github.com/spf13/cobra
[midi-macro]: https://github.com/vipul-sharma20/midi-macro
[go-release-binaries]: https://github.com/marketplace/actions/go-release-binaries
[slate]: https://github.com/vipul-sharma20/slate
[slate-releases]: https://github.com/vipul-sharma20/slate/releases
[slate-doc]: https://github.com/vipul-sharma20/slate/wiki
[sonic-bubbles]: https://www.20k.org/episodes/sonicbubbles
[little-automation]: https://talkpython.fm/episodes/show/327/little-automation-tools-in-python
