---
layout: single
title:  "made-in-x: Where in the world these products I own are manufactured in?"
excerpt: "An analysis on where the products I own are manufactured in"
date:   2020-10-02 14:30:12 +0530
permalink: "/2020/10/made-in-x"
author_profile: false
---

## About

I have plotted the country of origin of a few of the products that I currently
own.

I'll try to keep updating the plots with all my future purchases.

## Why?

One day, I noticed that my nail cutter is "made in Korea" (manufactured by
Bell). I am sure a lot of you would've noticed that you have nail cutters that
are made in Korea. I found an interesting article titled:

[Every thing is "Made in China" but nail clippers/cutters are from S.Korea, Why
though ??][0]

This gave me an idea to log the country of origin of the products I own. I
couldn't log the data for **all** the products I own, but I have tried to cover
a few categories.

Over the past few weeks, I've collected data for 80+ products across various
categories (check the categories in the plots below).

To source the data, I looked for straight up *"made in x"* label on the items,
old boxes of the products, online order history and in some cases, looked up on
the internet for the country of manufacturing for a brand.

## Made in X

Here is a plot of the product categories and the countries they are
manufactured in.

*Note: Single click on legends to toggle categories and double click to isolate categories*

<iframe id="plotly-custom" width="1000" height="700" frameborder="0" scrolling="yes" src="//plotly.com/~vipul/51.embed"></iframe>

* Interesting to see that most of the electronics is manufactured in China
  whereas the electrical products are manufactured in India.
* Almost all the clothing items are made in India which includes some well
  known brands.
* Only USA made products are the music products like guitar strings and some
  accessories

## Where I got these products from?

I also collected data of where I purchased these items from. Below is the plot
which shows how I purchased/got these products.

*Note: Single click on legends to toggle categories and double click to isolate categories*

<iframe id="plotly-custom" width="1000" height="700" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plotly.com/~vipul/53.embed"></iframe>

* Amazon.in seems to be the go to online shopping for me.
* The 2 purchases from Flipkart were made only because they were exclusively
  available on Flipkart.


[0]: https://steemit.com/life/@chapterclosed/every-thing-is-made-in-china-but-nail-clippers-cutters-are-from-s-korea-why-though
