---
layout: single
title:  "nvim-jira: A Jira plugin for Neovim"
excerpt: "I wrote a Jira plugin for Neovim in Lua"
date:   2020-06-22 14:30:12 +0530
permalink: "/2020/06/nvim-jira"
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
tags: [neovim, jira]
toc_label: "Contents"
---

## What is it?

Neovim version 0.4 and above is now shipped with the Lua runtime built into the
editor. This has provided a great alternative to Vimscript.

I saw a really cool plugin:[https://github.com/glacambre/firenvim][0] which is
written Lua and I thought of trying it out myself. I don't know Lua and I am
not a very good plugin developer. I thought of learning a little bit of Lua and
make a Neovim plugin over this last weekend.

I had started working on creating a Jira plugin using Python but then I dropped
that plan and used this opportunity to learn Lua and build the plugin.

This is what I came up with: [https://github.com/vipul-sharma20/nvim-jira][1].
Right now you can fetch all the Jira tickets which are assigned to you or the
ones you are watching. You can check all the comments posted and you can post
your own comments too. This is what it does for now.

## What Next?

I have noticed a few bugs and minor issues which I would fix like the
keybindings which I've created are pretty bad in terms of the design choices.
Aesthetically too, it needs some improvements. Some features I would like to
add are:
- Ticket transitions
- Ticket Reassignment
- Tagging people in comments
- Ticket searching
- etc.

This is still a work in progress. I would've preferred writing this post once I
was done with the plugin but am not going to dedicatedly work only on this
project, it will keep getting improved over time.

## First thoughts on Lua

First I went through [the lean x in y minutes page for Lua][2] to get a gist of
the language constructs, syntax and stuff. Looked pretty simple and clean.
Learning resources seems quite limited and I also struggled to send just a
simple HTTP request at first. After reading through some docs, it was easy to
work with it.  I felt Lua is a reasonable choice to be added in the stdlib of
Neovim considering its low footprint, size, speed and its embeddable nature.
It's perfect for scripting where these constraints are important.

[0]: https://github.com/glacambre/firenvim
[1]: https://github.com/vipul-sharma20/nvim-jira
[2]: https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/lua/
